# eSportsDashboard
A powerBI dashboard created to show useful insights into the game Valorant

The following report outlines the work carried out to implement a data visualisation solution using publicly available data. The topic chosen was the eSports industry and in particular the online game Valorant. This area of eSports is becoming hugely popular with an estimated market worth of over 3 billion is estimated by the end of 2022 (Goldmansachs, n.d.). With this huge increase in popularity, and a personal interest in this area, therefore this topic was chosen. The aim of this report is to outline the work developed in the power BI dashboard and to explain each chart that was developed. Included in the power BI attachment are 2 dashboards or pages of different charts described below. 
# Domain Information

The data set I have chosen is from on an online FPS (First Person Shooter) game called Valorant. Two teams play against each other with 5 players on each team. A player can choose any agent of which there is a list of in table 1. Only one agent of each type can be present on each team, for example only one Reyna can be chosen but multiple duellists or agent classes can be. Also, to note, each agent is categorised which can be seen in the table below. There are currently only 6 maps for which players can compete on. Some data points which will be examined include the win percentage. The First Blood percentage which is the percentage a particular agent has in getting the first kill in a game. The K/D ratio refers to an agents overall kills to deaths, where a positive K/D is considered optimal.  


# Visualisation Objectives

The objective from these visualisations is to conceptualise all the data referring to agents and how they preform on each map. When a new player starts to play this game, it can be daunting the number of agents and types of agents there are including the maps. This objective of this dashboard is to visualise all this for new players so they can see which agents preform better on certain maps. They can look at the pick rate of agents and what are the most common agents for a particular map. Which agent has the highest K/D ratio will also interest new players in picking an agent. Many different insights can be broken down and found out with this interactive dashboard. 
The tool used to achieve these visualisations was power BI. This is a Microsoft owned application that allows users to combine a vast number of different types of data and to extract interactive insights form them. This tool was chosen due to its ease-of-use intuitive UI and powerful wen scraping abilities which allowed me to gather the necessary information.
# Visualisation process

For this visualisation I decided to use Microsoft’s Power BI program. The ETL (Extract, Load, Transform) process was followed for the development of this visualisation. Firstly, using the power query editor, I extracted the Valorant data from the following website (Elo Entertainment, 2021). Here they give a list of tables of all the agents and their different statistics. Unfortunately, the table had a built-in filter which only allowed you to scrape one table at a time based on a particular map. This resulted in me scraping 8 different tables into power BI. Once imported in, I combined these tables to give one master table called “AgentData”. I then manually created a table called “Maps” and “AgentClass”. These contained basic information such as the names of the maps and the categories of agents which will be needed to create relationships with the master table. 
Once the data had been extracted, transforming the data was the next step. The top row of every table had the name of every column, so they were removed. Changing column names and types was also performed. For instance, the ‘Win%’, ‘Pick Rate’, and ‘first blood’ were all in decimal type so they were changed to percentage type. The table ‘AgentData’ contained reoccurring rows of headings, so a filter was applied to remove these headings. Below in figure 1 is a screenshot of the power query editor. Once this transformation was completed it was then loaded into Power BI dashboard. 

# Conclusion

Upon reflection, after completing this report I would choose a different tool to create the visualisations. Power BI is a very powerful and very easy-to-use application there were some limitations, like every application, that would make me try a different tool if I were to complete this project again. For instance, the ability to change theme or background colours when selecting a filter or a slicer would be a nice addition and would clearly show the user which filter was applied however this was unavailable in power BI. Tableau is another professional grade application that allows users to create visualisations and extract insights from data gathered and I may have chosen this one instead.
